- `var`
  Variables whose values can change can be declared with ``var``, or [[Data Type]]s. 
  FE: 
  ```dart
  var x= 'b';
  ```
  `x` will have a type [[String Data Type|String]] automatically, and this is done at compile-time.
- Variables store reference in dart, so in 
  ```dart
  var x = 'yo';
  ```
   `x`  contains a reference to a [[String Data Type|String]] object with a value `yo`
- With explicit [[Data Type]]s  too. 
  FE:
  ```dart
  String x = 'yo';
  ```
  
  We can use [Object]([[Object Data Type]])  or the [dynamic]([[dynamic Data Type]]) types too. These types can store a value of more than one type in a variable.
- Once a variable is declared, it can only have a single type. Inference assigns that type automatically.
- Variables can be inferred after declaration too. For that, they must be defined a value before being used after declaration.
  FE:
  ```dart
  var x;
  x=3;
  print(x); 
  ```
  Works. [[Dart Style Guide]] specifies that such variables be explicitly assigned a type rather than using `var`.
- Variables of Non-nullable [[Data Type]]s can be declared uninitialized too,  but they must be assigned before being used. On the other hand, nullable data types are initialized to [[Null]] by default.
  FE:
  ```dart
  String? x; //initialied to null automatically by default
  String y; //un-initialized, needs to be initialized before being used
  int? count; //initialized to null, not 0 (intuition) which is still a value of type int.
  assert(count==null); //true
  int lineCount;
  if (weLikeToCount) {
  lineCount = countLines();
  } else {
  lineCount = 0;
  }
  print(lineCount); //ok, dart knows lineCount isn't null by the time execution reaches here
  ```
  
  Uses [[Assert]]
- Top Level Variable
  [[Class]] Variables ([[Static]] Variables and not class instance variables) and Top Level Variables aren't initialized as soon as the executor reaches the declaration, rather they are initialized lazily, i.e., whenever they are first accessed. 
  FE:
  ```dart
  String Y = getX();
  String getX() {
  print("In top level getX");
  return "aye";
  }
  
  void main(List<String> arguments) {
  var x = X();
  print("x is here");
  print(X.x);
  print(Y);
  print("Y is here");
  }
  class X {
  static String x = getX("x");
  String y = getX("y");
  X();
  static String getX(String value) {
    print("Initializing $value");
    return "yo";
  }
  }
  ```
- ``late``
  Late Variables
  [[Dart]] requires variables are initialized before they are used during [[Compilation]]. But we can disable the check if we are sure the variable will be initialized before it is used, by using `late` modifier on its declaration.
  Syntax: `late <type> <varname>;`
  * If we fail to initialize a late var and use it, it's a [[Runtime Error]]
  * Late Variables are lazily initialized, that is until they are used their values are not computed/initialized.
- `final`
  Final Variables
  These variables once assigned a value can't be reassigned another value. If the value is an object and not a ((6633e18f-d9eb-4359-990e-2e27bf271b93)) then the value can be modified but it still can't be reassigned. We use the `final` keyword to declare these variables, alternatively, we can use `final` alongside the Data Type too, necessary in cases such as when the variable is initialized later.
  FE:
  ```dart
  final x = [2, 3];
  x[0] = 4; //ok
  final int y;
  y = 2; //ok
  y = 3; //error: can be only set once
  ```
- `const`
  Const Variables
  Just like final variables, can be assigned a value only once but are compile-time constants (the value is evaluated at compile time and hence must be available at compile time itself), hence non-assignable plus non-modifiable too, and they must be initialized at the time of declaration.
  > Syntax is the same as final variables, but `const` can be used to declare constant constructors too, i.e., [[Function]]s who will return a value at compile time.
  FE:
  ```dart
  const x = 2;
  var y = const [2, 3]; //ok
  var foo = const []; //ok
  final bar = const [];
  const baz = []; // Equivalent to `const []
  ```
  * Here `y` is still a var, so it can be reassigned a value. That is `const` values can be assigned to `var` and  `final` variables and then they can be changed for those variables, but the opposite is not true, `const` variables need constant compile-time values.
  
   * `const` can be used with [[Type Cast]], [[Collection If]] and [[Operator#^d4e0d6|Spread Operator]] too
  FE:
  ```dart
  const Object i = 3; // Where i is a const Object with an int value...
  const list = [i as int]; // Use a typecast.
  const map = {if (i is int) i: 'int'}; // Use is and collection if.
  const set = {if (list is List<int>) ...list}; // ...and a spread.
  ```
-