- ``cargo``
  Rust's package manager and build system. Whilst the Rust files are compiled with [[rustc]], cargo builds the rest of the project.
- ``cargo new``
  We can create a new project with ``cargo new <folder/projectname>``.
  We can then build the project with ``cargo build``. And then run it with ``cargo run``.
- ``cargo build``
  Builds the project and creates an executable in debug/ . Use ``--release`` flag to build in release mode. A general difference between debug build and release build is that debug build is compiled faster but runs slower whereas release compiles slower but runs faster.
- ``cargo run``
  Builds the project or skips it if there already exists a latest build and then runs the executable.
- ``cargo check``
  Checks the project by building it but not creating an executable, faster than cargo build.
- [crates.io](https://crates.io) is the Rust community’s central crate repository. [[Cargo]] searches for dependencies here by default.
- To add a crate to our project,
  * Find the crate version and name on crates.io 
  * Add ``<packge-name>=”<version>”`` to the [[cargo.toml]]
  * Then open the items of the package in the [[Scope]] with [[use]]
  
  The [[Standard Library]] crates are already present in most Rust installations, we don’t need to specify its crates in the cargo.toml but we do need to open the items in the scope (using [[use]]) for easy access.
- Cargo projects, by default, needs their ``.rs`` files inside an ``src`` folder, this folder must be at the same level as the [[cargo.toml]] file.