- Just like vectors in C++. Contiguous blocks of dynamically allocated memory with same [[Data Type]]s. 
  They are defined as ``Vec<T>`` [[Struct]].
  For ex.:
  ```rust
     let v: Vec<i32> = Vec::new(); //new empty vector
  ```
  Here defining the type is necessary as that is specifying the type for the [[Generic Type]] used in ``Vec::new()``, however Rust can infer the type automatically if the vector is initialized with some value or if the vector receives values after initialization.
  For ex.:
  ```rust
  let mut v= Vec::new();
  v.push(2); //ok
  let v2= Vec::from([1,2]); //ok
  ```
  The variable must be mutable to make the vector mutable.
- We can also use the ``vec!`` [[Macro]] to initialize vectors.
  For ex.:
  ```rust
  let v= vec![1,2,3];
  ```
  Rust automatically infers the type as ``i32`` [[Number]] making the vector ``Vec<i32>``since the values are given.
- ``.push(<value>)``
  Pushes the value of the type to the vector.
- Reading an individual value
  We can do so like an array, or using the special ``.get(<int index>)`` [[Function]]. 
  ```rust
  let arr=vec![1,2,3];
  let elem= &arr[2]; //ok, gets an immutable reference
  let elem2= arr[2]; //copies the value
  let elem3= match arr.get(2) {
  Some(value) => value,
  None => 0
  };
  ```
  The ``.get`` allows accessing invalid index without [[Panic]]king by using [[Option Type]]. The normal copy follows the [[Copy or Move]] behavior. The [[Reference Type]] access follows the [[Ownership]] and [[Borrowing]] rules, i.e., if there's an immutable reference then a mutable reference can't exist.
  For ex.:
  ```rust
  let mut v= vec![1,2,3];
  let elem= &v[2]; //immutable reference
  v.push(2); //error
  ```
  This code fails because even though the index itself won't be affected, the immutable reference stored in ``elem`` is pointing to a memory address that may change as the vector may need to allocate more memory with the push which takes a mutable reference and hence may need to copy all the values to the new addresses.
- Reading the whole vector
  We can use the ``for..in`` [[Loop]], like so
  ```rust
      let mut v = vec![100, 32, 57];
      for i in &mut v {
          *i += 50;
      }
  //or immutably
      for i in &v {
          println!("{i}");
      }
  ```
  The loop takes a [[Reference Type]]. We can directly use the variable to get the value, but to modify it we must use the Dereference [[Operator]] ``*``. The [[Borrowing]] and [[Ownership]] rules prohibit modifying the vector inside its loop.
- We can use [[Enumerated Type]]s or [[Trait Object]]s to store multiple [[Data Type]]s in a Vector.
- Dropping a vector also cleans up its elements automatically
  Meaning if we have
  ```rust
      {
          let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4];
  
          // do stuff with v
      } // <- v goes out of scope and is freed here
  ```
  Then when ``v`` is dropped, its elements which are [[Number]]s here are cleaned up as well, the [[Borrow Checker]] ensures the references are valid so the dropped vector isn't accessed anymore.
-
-